So I'm here to give you some tips on safely
changing lanes and merging.
And from the subject of merging, the basic
rule of thumb is to use that merging lane
to build up our speed, which will make it
a lot easier to merge onto the highway.
We don't want to come to the end of that merging
lane and have our car at a full stop, because
then it's going to be much harder getting
on the highway because the cars that are on
there are traveling at a greater rate of speed.
So what you want to do is you want to build
up your speed in that merging lane.
You want to check your mirror so that you're
sure that you have a good safe gap in which
to merge onto.
And then right before you make that merge
onto the highway, turn your head over your
shoulder.
Make sure you take the blind spot out of it.
And then when it's safe and you have enough
room, then you're going to get your car onto
the highway.
As far as changing lanes once you're on the
highway, the first thing you want to do is
indicate the direction of the change.
So if you're going to change lanes to the
left, you have to put your signal on to the
left, giving the other cars around you the
idea of what you intend to do.
Once you've done that, the next thing to do
is to make sure it's safe to actually make
the lane change.
So you put your signal on.
You start checking your mirrors to make sure
that you have enough room.
And then when you think it's safe, again a
turn of the head is definitely good advice.
You want to turn over your left shoulder.
Look back.
Make sure there's sufficient room in order
to make that safe change, and then move your
car into the lane that you intend to go into.
When do you come back to the right lane after
you've made the lane change?
The rule of thumb for that is that you need
to see the entire vehicle that you've passed
in your rear view mirror before it's safe
to move back into the right lane.
So again, you put your signal on right.
Make your indication of where you want to
go.
Check your rear view mirror, and when you
can see that entire car in the rear view mirror,
then it's safe to move back to the right lane.
And those are some good tips on merging and
changing lanes.